LIsa Anderson: How are you doing,
Amber Romero: Good, how are you
LIsa Anderson: Good, thanks. Can you hear me okay
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: All right. Um, so I'm, I'm glad to see you. I'm here again. Thanks for joining. Again, I'm
LIsa Anderson: Going to
LIsa Anderson: Do I just kind of wanted to recap, I'm just as far as last week, we kind of had our initial session to see where you are, um, anything anything big for you happened this past week any big changes, we should talk about
Amber Romero: No, not really.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, um, how did this past week go as far as your medications and kind of getting
Amber Romero: I'm actually getting a lot of anxiety like bad. I don't know.
Amber Romero: Why
Amber Romero: It makes her all the time and
Amber Romero: I know sometimes I have to like tie off.
Amber Romero: To go away. There
LIsa Anderson: He said your legs hurt.
LIsa Anderson: I'm sorry, you said what hurts.
Amber Romero: Everything my day farms, they
Amber Romero: usually shoot up
Amber Romero: The only way I can get this off.
Amber Romero: My
Amber Romero: Jacket.
LIsa Anderson: experiencing a feeling of physical pain kind of all over your body.
Amber Romero: But just thinks it was it
Amber Romero: Was to a point where I feel like it would be an attack like an exciting time. Hey,
LIsa Anderson: Have you ever would have before. What does that look like for you.
LIsa Anderson: When you have an anxiety attack.
Amber Romero: I'm sorry.
LIsa Anderson: What does that look like for you when you experience an anxiety attack.
Amber Romero: Me.
Amber Romero: Best way to put it.
Amber Romero: So,
LIsa Anderson: YOU CUT OUT FOR A MINUTE THERE SO feeling that everyone is or thought. So I thought that everyone is
Happy
And then
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: You might have thought that everyone is out to get you. And then what what emotions come
Amber Romero: I'm sure
LIsa Anderson: So if you have a thought in this thought is maybe everyone is advocating what emotions come up for you when you have that thought.
Amber Romero: Panic.
LIsa Anderson: Panic. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: A feeling of panic.
Amber Romero: I can't like
Amber Romero: capris okay this is just apparently I don't know how to explain it.
Is
Amber Romero: A
Amber Romero: RP scale sweaty. I, I don't know, that's the tough part itself, but
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
Amber Romero: I guess that's what
LIsa Anderson: The total starts
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, all right. We kind of break it down, you have this thought people are out to get me.
LIsa Anderson: And you have this feeling that arises.
LIsa Anderson: So some
LIsa Anderson: What
Amber Romero: Can, can we disconnect and I call you right back because they there. There's no, like, SOUND It's all computer and then I hear probably like one word.
LIsa Anderson: I'm sure we can try that yet. Do you know how to how to get back in
Amber Romero: Yes. And it's the same number of give me like 30 seconds.
Okay.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and start some transcription here. I had Mr Romero, I'm on the zoom link.
LIsa Anderson: She is back.
LIsa Anderson: Can you hear me.
LIsa Anderson: Yes.
Amber Romero: Okay, yes.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, good took
Amber Romero: It took like four minutes. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Well, good, good. I'm glad you're back. Okay, so, um, we were
LIsa Anderson: talking a little bit about, um,
LIsa Anderson: Some of the panic and anxiety, you had been experiencing. Um, and one question for you. How many times did you feel like you had that experience or that episode this past week.
Amber Romero: I know probably four seven
Amber Romero: Measure it
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, I was kind of looking at some of the surveys that you filled out. And when we look at your, your kind of measure of of your anxiety, what you're telling me now I do see that matching up with
LIsa Anderson: Some pretty severe levels of anxiety I was looking kind of also at your depression scores from last time and and that was
LIsa Anderson: Around the the moderate, severe range to can you tell me a little bit about
LIsa Anderson: Your mood. This past week. Would you say that's that's pretty accurate that you were on the more depressed side this past week.
Yeah.
Amber Romero: I don't think so. But maybe I'm just off like but I mean I wouldn't call it depressed, but I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: Hey, tell me about that. What, what were you feeling pissed off about
Amber Romero: Life.
Amber Romero: No issues with the boyfriend baby daddy getting out of prison.
Amber Romero: I'm
Amber Romero: Not work.
Amber Romero: coronavirus taken over. It was just
Amber Romero: I don't know. Maybe it was my period. I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. So, a lot, a lot, kind of came out you this past week.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah okay well understandable. Yeah, there's a lot of, you know, you're dealing with a lot right now.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so, so kind of not more so on the the angry side, you would say this past week, more so than feeling down or depressed or
Amber Romero: I don't think I would consider myself so I really don't.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right.
LIsa Anderson: Then then looking at, I'm just kind of your
LIsa Anderson: Remember one of those surveys that you feel that it's called the brief addiction, um, monitor. And so looking at that you have reported I'm
LIsa Anderson: Kind of those days of having cravings. So, about six days of cravings. Is that about right.
Amber Romero: Well, every day.
LIsa Anderson: Every day okay and then sleep issues every day.
Amber Romero: Every day.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, anxiety, every day.
LIsa Anderson: Yes. And then I'm okay. You mentioned kind of issues with relationships.
LIsa Anderson: That's been giving you some trouble about every day and then
LIsa Anderson: Kind of a maybe family when you mentioned the family or friend arguments would you relate that to kind of your boyfriend and and what was going on with him this past week.
Amber Romero: Kind of an argument for a book.
Amber Romero: Hey, back in the day, what did you
Amber Romero: Are you today. I'm fine me one more time.
LIsa Anderson: Oh, it's already using
Amber Romero: Computers, you had
LIsa Anderson: Your survey.
LIsa Anderson: Just some family stress or a family arguments. This past week.
LIsa Anderson: I'm going over that I'm just taking a look that we're on the same pages. Those um you know all those all that work you fill out in the beginning.
LIsa Anderson: Are you also mentioned feeling that physical pain to
LIsa Anderson: So on your, your payment or so just about every day even having some physical pain.
Amber Romero: Point.
Amber Romero: Yeah, that was purpose for using
LIsa Anderson: That was what for using
That
Amber Romero: Are you preparing
LIsa Anderson: That's why you use this for physical pain.
Amber Romero: Of a car.
Amber Romero: Just to happen, but
Amber Romero: Probably maybe of all going down the freeway one here and
Amber Romero: Myself pretty bad.
Amber Romero: But
Amber Romero: Just I kept on using for the pain, cuz medication, they were going to meet that I felt wasn't strong enough and I don't want to be
Amber Romero: I never really thought about work.
LIsa Anderson: And would you say that's kind of how your use became more progressive as time went on,
LIsa Anderson: It.
LIsa Anderson: Was really a injury. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Well, I can hear you, kind of, I'm having a little bit of awareness amber, you know, we talked about
LIsa Anderson: Last time kind of how you started, and it was you know you weren't really sure what it can point that so i think is we're kind of getting
LIsa Anderson: You along this process a little bit more for you to kind of look at maybe that injury was maybe even turning point in your addiction, where, where it got worse, where you were using relating to the pain, does that
LIsa Anderson: Does that sound right.
Amber Romero: I mean, it fits right i want to say that that was like the like the breaker, breaker if it just
LIsa Anderson: Depends. Okay, um, because you talked about last time that there were times where you didn't know if
LIsa Anderson: You didn't really take to the word triggers for your use it sometimes it would just, it could be anything. Right. Okay. Um, so, so, but now you would say when you're experiencing a pain of being
LIsa Anderson: A feeling of pain or or a feeling of anxiety was that kind of kicking up those cravings.
Amber Romero: Oh,
Amber Romero: Hey, I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, okay I
Amber Romero: Wasn't really thinking about that, like,
LIsa Anderson: Okay, well, we'll put that on the back burner for now. Um, how have you been coping this week, like with all of the stress that you mentioned.
LIsa Anderson: That came up for you this week. Like, how have you been kind of kind of keeping off all of those balls up in the air. What have you been doing to kind of cope with that.
Amber Romero: Crank point everybody around me and
Amber Romero: Smoke math.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so you've been using math, um,
LIsa Anderson: This past week.
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: So, kind of, um,
LIsa Anderson: Feeling like you switched over to that a little bit.
LIsa Anderson: Well,
Amber Romero: Just a couple days ago, maybe it would like
Amber Romero: Not like Scott and I were like
LIsa Anderson: stopping you from thinking so much. Okay.
Yeah.
Amber Romero: Yeah. Good work.
LIsa Anderson: Didn't work kind of maybe had the opposite effect, right.
Amber Romero: Yes.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, when, when was the one that you used
LIsa Anderson: Days ago. Okay. Um, so you've been able to to stop it.
LIsa Anderson: I'm happy.
Amber Romero: Me used any
Days.
Amber Romero: Just Suboxone
LIsa Anderson: Just this box and. Okay. All right. Well, um,
LIsa Anderson: So let's talk about amber, but
LIsa Anderson: You know that obviously that that stress of some of the things you know stress with family and in arguments with people close to you that that brought up.
LIsa Anderson: under a tree to us so that very
Moving
LIsa Anderson: So, um, do you want, do you want to talk about as far as what's going on with your relationships right now or
LIsa Anderson: Are you in a safe place to talk about that.
Amber Romero: Yeah. Um, but, okay. However, your question was cut out so I don't
Amber Romero: Know what you're asking.
LIsa Anderson: So you you talked about kind of the stress that happen with relationships. This past week.
LIsa Anderson: And how that was connected using math, um,
LIsa Anderson: So maybe we talk
LIsa Anderson: About what about
LIsa Anderson: Help you manage going forward.
LIsa Anderson: Tools.
LIsa Anderson: You can pull out when you're feeling stressed when you're feeling anxious
LIsa Anderson: That you can kind of make those your go tues instead of using
LIsa Anderson: Does that make sense.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, yes. Okay. So was it like an argument or was there one specific
LIsa Anderson: Situation like
LIsa Anderson: You know, as far as your his dad getting out of prison. Was that a safety situation.
Amber Romero: Um, no, no, no, no safety situation just I'm
Amber Romero: A long term relationship, I guess.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah. Yeah. You mentioned to me that, um, that last time that you know you guys were together for a long time and things didn't quite end on on the best of terms.
LIsa Anderson: And so for him.
LIsa Anderson: out of prison that just brought up a lot of those feelings for you.
Amber Romero: More than a mossy, I guess.
LIsa Anderson: And you talked about that feeling of anger.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, what about that was it. I'm angry at him about the things that happened in the past.
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: Yeah, I mean, just everything
Amber Romero: angers secondary emotion so mean primary emotion behind that is hurt. I mean, I just, yeah.
Amber Romero: But
LIsa Anderson: Yeah so. So knowing that her was kind of
LIsa Anderson: It brought the hurt from everything that happened in the past.
LIsa Anderson: And then that was kind of secondary to that.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, okay, well, you know, it's definitely you know a lot going on. And like you said, the stress of of not working.
LIsa Anderson: Um, you know, it's a lot
LIsa Anderson: It's a lot for anybody to take, you know, and you're still kind of
LIsa Anderson: You know, new in recovery.
LIsa Anderson: So, you know, I want to be able to support you in that in dealing with, you know, working through you know the steps in your recovery.
LIsa Anderson: And also just you know these things that get thrown at us in life. And it sounds like you're still, you know, kind of healing from some, some of those things in regards to your relationship you know your your past relationship.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Um, were you able to make your calls with your kids this week.
LIsa Anderson: How did those go
Amber Romero: Yes, um, quick.
Quick
Amber Romero: Yeah.
Amber Romero: I mean that's 20 minutes and there's two and they both want to talk a whole thing.
Amber Romero: But
Amber Romero: Yeah, fast.
LIsa Anderson: It goes fast. Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Well, um, you know, I know. That's been a big priority for you. Um, is, you know, getting yourself in in a safe and stable environment, getting clean so that you can happen.
LIsa Anderson: So I kind of wanted to revisit
LIsa Anderson: Some of our goals that we talked about last time and your goals and kind of looking at
LIsa Anderson: You know, as
LIsa Anderson: As far as
LIsa Anderson: The opioid use kind of what you know some of our, our long term goals for you.
LIsa Anderson: Would, would be to look at, you know, maybe talking about
LIsa Anderson: History, like the frequency of use, um,
LIsa Anderson: You know, we want to look
LIsa Anderson: At those those things that you fill out every week. That kind of gives us a good sense of where you are, as far as like your anxiety. You know those all of those those measures that you fill out.
LIsa Anderson: And then we're going to look at, um, you know, of course, continuing to work with your doctor on your medications.
LIsa Anderson: And then I'm
LIsa Anderson: Kind of look at
LIsa Anderson: Like, what have you ever heard the term member ambivalent
LIsa Anderson: ambivalent ambivalent yeah so you know if someone's in
LIsa Anderson: About a decision kind of meeting, like they're on the fence right
LIsa Anderson: You could see the pros and cons of either choice. So oftentimes when we, you know, look at addiction is there is some ambivalence. As far as the person wanting you know there there's reasons to get clean
LIsa Anderson: And we've talked about those, but sometimes for people. There's reasons that they still use. So I want to create, you know, a space for us or
LIsa Anderson: For both. Oh, so that's kind of what we call it.
LIsa Anderson: Um, so that'll be something that will keep keep working towards
LIsa Anderson: Um,
LIsa Anderson: One thing I wanted to ask you. Last time I know you mentioned, um, you know, some of the social support, or is there anyone that you feel like would be involved in your treatment.
LIsa Anderson: That you feel like that it would be helpful for them to be involved in your in your treatment.
Um,
Amber Romero: Well, I mean, they're
Amber Romero: The ones who are close to me either. They're involved like as far as them wanting to like
Like
Amber Romero: Jump in, or participate
LIsa Anderson: Or just asking like, you talked about your parents being really supportive of your sobriety, or like if couples therapy is something that you feel like you want to work on right now.
LIsa Anderson: Or if you want to just keep, you know, keep the focus on you for the time being.
Amber Romero: Um, yeah, probably me
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Um, so then we kind of wanted to definitely I think have the long term goal as far as
LIsa Anderson: Maybe just kind of helping you connect with things that you can kind of do day to day, you know, I know, of course, your phone calls with your kids are really important. And you said you're doing those three times a week. Right.
Amber Romero: Uh huh.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, or video chat or calls three times a week. Okay, um,
LIsa Anderson: And then maybe just kind of looking at your areas as far as like hobbies, you know, I know you talked about drawing, but that, you know, it was also kind of hard for you to fill your days.
LIsa Anderson: So I thought maybe we could put that as a goal.
LIsa Anderson: For maybe like the next three months to kind of increase your like just your recreational
LIsa Anderson: Kind of, you know, fun recreational activities and figuring out what you like.
LIsa Anderson: About last week.
Amber Romero: Well, um,
Amber Romero: We can do that. That would be fine.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, just because
LIsa Anderson: When, when a person has
LIsa Anderson: A long time. Um, you know we we know that that's kind of the nature of addiction that a lot of your time. A lot of your day to day, a lot of just you're focused on using right
LIsa Anderson: It's focused on like how to
LIsa Anderson: get money for the drug, how to, you know, the time spent using the drug, right, like that's a lot of what's
LIsa Anderson: Priyanka occupying your time.
LIsa Anderson: And so we want to fill that time with with other things.
LIsa Anderson: With. With. With. You know, clean, clean and sober.
LIsa Anderson: Activities. Okay, so maybe. Yeah, we can put that for maybe the next three months. Um, another question for you, Amber I know that you talked about you know you had worked at the
LIsa Anderson: Being previously last year late last year. Um, and I know of course you know everything that's happening right now. I'm up in the air, but is is a bank job, something that you would
LIsa Anderson: Try to pursue again.
Amber Romero: Um, with that one specifically known to the cat there and you said, No, but I'm with other ones. Yeah. Like, I've already. I've already started that process just, I don't know.
Amber Romero: I don't know what it's gonna
Amber Romero: Start again I
Amber Romero: I would think banking would be essential, you know, people need their money or a banking question but I
Amber Romero: Don't know I have applied just haven't heard anything back
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Good. Well, good. Um, yeah, I think we could definitely put that you know on target for me, within the next three months that hopefully you could find something, and there's
LIsa Anderson: Steps that you've already applied because. Absolutely. I think banks, you know, banks are still a central banks are
Amber Romero: So already have insurance.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so you're just kind of applying to different banks around town.
Amber Romero: Mm hmm. Right. What can you hear me.
Amber Romero: All right, good. Um,
LIsa Anderson: You know, I know that, um, you talked about before, some of the treatment that you had done.
LIsa Anderson: Previously, um, as far as like any support groups like a a or na um you know I know those kind of arcs.
LIsa Anderson: Probably up and running in person right now. Um,
LIsa Anderson: Have you done any. What are your thoughts like about online support group.
Amber Romero: I haven't tried it all.
LIsa Anderson: Like that may be something you want to consider.
LIsa Anderson: Hold off on that for now.
No.
Amber Romero: No, I, I
Amber Romero: Dont I
Amber Romero: I've tried it.
Amber Romero: I'm
Amber Romero: Hey, just I wasn't OK, though I wasn't comfortable. I in likely people really came at me.
Amber Romero: A very different spot, you know,
Amber Romero: My dad lives by
Amber Romero: It's been recommended
Amber Romero: See that it works, people who apply themselves are pretty successful and once they stop everything like basically goes to shit but um
Amber Romero: It's
Amber Romero: It's not
Amber Romero: My cup of tea, I guess.
LIsa Anderson: All right. No, I hear you. In, in, you know, I'm
LIsa Anderson: Sure. Oh.
LIsa Anderson: You tried it before.
LIsa Anderson: So, you know, that's okay. You'll have to kind of find you know what works for you. I'm kind of find your path.
LIsa Anderson: As far as, you know, support, would you say though that you do have some, some people who are a good support to you like as far as your family or friends.
Amber Romero: We talked about last time. Oh yeah, close friends and your parent like
LIsa Anderson: Alright, so, um, you know, like, and then, of course, like those can kind of be some short term goal. Thank you. And then, of course, you know, looking at long term.
LIsa Anderson: You know, accepting about how you know your chemical kind of life kind of getting you in in a recovery program that's working for you and then really kind of establishing that sustained recovery. You know that that timeframe where were you trying
LIsa Anderson: To sabotage time of
LIsa Anderson: And we go you for for about
LIsa Anderson: Over a year. Right.
LIsa Anderson: Um,
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, so
LIsa Anderson: You know, knowing that you have some
LIsa Anderson: And
LIsa Anderson: Just drawn some of those skills that
You're
LIsa Anderson: Um,
LIsa Anderson: And then kind of
LIsa Anderson: Get those positive coping skills back to help you maintain sobriety.
LIsa Anderson: Like tools in your tool chest where you put kind of brought from that when you do feel anxious, you feel angry and you can kind of use some other coping skills.
LIsa Anderson: That have, you know, kind of relearning right if what you learned in the past was to use substances, when you felt anxious or stressed or angry.
LIsa Anderson: And now we're we're taking that out of it. We want to be able to give you some other tools to use
That make sense.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, alright, so then I want to talk to him a little bit about, um,
LIsa Anderson: You talked about
LIsa Anderson: Anxious feelings that you were having pretty much every day. And some of that free and
Amber Romero: It.
LIsa Anderson: Around like feeling like people were out to get you.
Amber Romero: Can't hear you. Yeah, you sound far away.
LIsa Anderson: So you you had talked about that those feelings of anxiousness
Amber Romero: And some of those thoughts.
LIsa Anderson: That people were out to get you, um,
LIsa Anderson: Any um and you talked about feeling restless on any like shortness of breath.
LIsa Anderson: Racing
Amber Romero: I don't know what you said between breath and racing.
Amber Romero: did mention the heart racing um
Amber Romero: Maybe I didn't know shortness of breath would be it. But like, or like rapid
Amber Romero: Like hyperventilating
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Okay, gotcha. Yeah, that definitely does sound.
LIsa Anderson: You know, like just kind of subject, I think it
LIsa Anderson: So you did a really good job today of kind of describing some of those thoughts that came up with those anxieties and worries and so that's definitely I think something for the next three months that we can talk about what situations are associated with those
Worry
LIsa Anderson: How that's impacted just your day to day functioning.
LIsa Anderson: And then
LIsa Anderson: You know how, how we can resolve that. Okay. And, and I heard you saying some really great things, earlier you know about anger, being a secondary emotion. So I think we can kind of keep working on that to kind of help you have an understanding of
LIsa Anderson: Where some of these emotions are coming
LIsa Anderson: And kind of how those thoughts if
That makes sense.
LIsa Anderson: And then
LIsa Anderson: Having ever done like
LIsa Anderson: Like
Like meditation or anything like that.
Amber Romero: Yes, we have ever done.
LIsa Anderson: Have you ever been deep breathing practice or meditation.
Amber Romero: Oh yeah, I did.
Amber Romero: We have
Amber Romero: I don't know if I just like not very open minded to things, but
Amber Romero: Like mindfulness
Amber Romero: Meditation.
Amber Romero: Like
Amber Romero: Oh no, I never
Amber Romero: Just
Amber Romero: So I can do something better with my 20 minutes
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: So,
LIsa Anderson: You know, like I said, there's
LIsa Anderson: That's one of the tools.
LIsa Anderson: That we're going to kind of explore having an array of tools at your disposal, that if one thing doesn't work.
LIsa Anderson: You know you can reach for something else. So
LIsa Anderson: You know, we can. We'll talk about maybe
LIsa Anderson: writing things down. You know, sometimes
LIsa Anderson: Dealing with worries. We can even kind of say okay this is going to get designated time and space when they write down those for you.
LIsa Anderson: And then we'll kind of go through some things together, where we can kind of like a little bit challenge that worry and talk about like how realistic is that thought.
LIsa Anderson: You know that that kind of self talk. And by that we mean just kind of the internal dialogue that we have with our simple
LIsa Anderson: And that feels really accurate, but sometimes the messages that we're telling ourselves aren't always the most helpful to us.
LIsa Anderson: So it makes sense if
LIsa Anderson: You missed
LIsa Anderson: It is, you know, people are following me and being watched. I can't handle this. It's too much for me. You know those thoughts are going over
LIsa Anderson: It.
LIsa Anderson: So I think definitely like over like say the next three months.
What's really put that
LIsa Anderson: Focus kind of able to change that self talk into more
LIsa Anderson: Realistic self talk to kind of give give some more positive messages to yourself.
LIsa Anderson: You know, we talked about maybe problem solving strategies so
LIsa Anderson: You know, just specific
Steps
LIsa Anderson: And then
Amber Romero: Kind of
Amber Romero: relapse prevention.
Strategies.
LIsa Anderson: How to manage those anxiety symptoms so that
Amber Romero: You know,
LIsa Anderson: To avoid any any potential relapse.
LIsa Anderson: That all kind of makes sense.
Amber Romero: Yeah okay um any
LIsa Anderson: Anything else, and right now we talked about a lot. Um, last time, just as far as like your history.
LIsa Anderson: You know, any, anything else that you feel like I think maybe minister, that's really into play right now that that's significant for you.
Amber Romero: Know,
Amber Romero: The main thing was just beings it
LIsa Anderson: thinks it okay um you know in in I appreciate kind of your willingness to try things out. So, um, you know, we'll, we'll try things out and if it doesn't work. It doesn't work. But, um, you know, I definitely want to give every tool and every kind of option.
LIsa Anderson: Available.
LIsa Anderson: Definitely like looking at, you know,
LIsa Anderson: Family
LIsa Anderson: Some sort of
LIsa Anderson: Just activities.
LIsa Anderson: Able to function just a day to day
LIsa Anderson: He mentioned sleep had been kind of an issue for you for you this past week, right.
LIsa Anderson: Mm Hmm is it falling asleep.
Amber Romero: Asleep.
LIsa Anderson: What does that look like
Amber Romero: Falling asleep, I guess.
Amber Romero: Once I'm I feel like once I'm asleep.
Amber Romero: I'm asleep, but
Amber Romero: Maybe a couple times.
Amber Romero: Okay, I'm falling asleep, just
Amber Romero: That that's hard. And then I'm
Amber Romero: Like
Amber Romero: I tried to
Amber Romero: Make night night terrors.
Amber Romero: Yeah it sucks like this isn't a couple times my second my hair. There's been a couple times where, like, I guess. Someone had to wake me up because I'm screaming bloody murder in my seat.
Amber Romero: I don't know why all of a sudden
LIsa Anderson: You're
LIsa Anderson: Falling asleep. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Well, let's definitely
LIsa Anderson: on our radar for the next three months and definitely sleep disturbances are are common.
LIsa Anderson: You know, with
LIsa Anderson: With substance use, you know, of course, the methamphetamine is
LIsa Anderson: You know, an upper stipulate
LIsa Anderson: Definitely cost sleep disturbance
LIsa Anderson: And then we kind of just talk letting your brain and your body just kind of, you know, get get back to, to a level place.
LIsa Anderson: But, you know, we can definitely work with your doctors and and look at
LIsa Anderson: You know there's there's various medications for sleep and you know there's about two as far as like establishing like a daily routine like trying to go to bed and wake up at the same time every day.
LIsa Anderson: And just doing things to kind of promote restful restful sleep so well done like put that on the radar for kind of, you know, the next three months.
LIsa Anderson: In, in, you know, maybe that's something to mention I'm sure your doctors will probably talk with you about that too and the upcoming week
LIsa Anderson: How was group going
Amber Romero: Oh, I don't know. I've only been there once.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so just one one coming up again. This next
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Well,
LIsa Anderson: Um, yeah, I know that you're, you have a lot of balls in the air right now.
LIsa Anderson: And you know you've done a great job of keeping
Up.
LIsa Anderson: And I know there's a lot a lot going on right now.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, well, um, yeah. So let's let's plan to check in again next week.
LIsa Anderson: You know, see better do
LIsa Anderson: It.
LIsa Anderson: And if you can. Amber. Can you drop down for me if you have that experience of what you know you kind of felt like was a panic attack again. Um, I want you to try to as soon as you kind of feel feel that you're able to, if you can just
Amber Romero: Having
LIsa Anderson: That down on a piece of paper and then next week, we can kind of look at it together as far as like what you were thinking or what you were doing right before that panic set in
LIsa Anderson: And that way we can kind of start to I did.
LIsa Anderson: Like where your thoughts are
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Yeah. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Right, so, um, I know we talked about Thursdays at 1pm does that still work for you for next week.
LIsa Anderson: Yes. Okay. Alright, so I'll go ahead and have him.
Amber Romero: Next Thursday.
LIsa Anderson: 1pm and
LIsa Anderson: It will keep that appointment. But of course, you can call right
Heart. If you have any questions.
Amber Romero: Between now.
LIsa Anderson: They can reach me as well. If you have any specific questions for me.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Well, I hope you have a good rest of your damn for and any questions or anything. You feel like we want to cover before we sign off.
Amber Romero: Um, no. That's it. Thank you.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. You're welcome. We take care and I'll see you next week. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: That was amber Romero today was focused on her treatment plan for a diagnosis of severe opioid disorder.
LIsa Anderson: I'm
LIsa Anderson: Today I would categorize
LIsa Anderson: ambers demeanor is just
LIsa Anderson: A little bit guarded. She did disclose a
LIsa Anderson: Recent use the past three days of methamphetamine.
LIsa Anderson: We reviewed, her, her clinical measures and she did report on her dad severe anxiety.
LIsa Anderson: On for four, she did report depression on the pH q nine, although she verbally denied that but she described more
LIsa Anderson: Anger and her related to a number of cycles psycho social stressors related to a fight with her boyfriend her children's father being released from jail. She was definitely a little bit. I think more challenged by those things and just has a really some struggles as far as poor coping.
LIsa Anderson: And it really and avoiding coping style and and or use of substances as far as her her coping style, but we did focus on her treatment plan.
LIsa Anderson: For severe opioid
LIsa Anderson: Disorder.
LIsa Anderson: Looking at her short term objectives ability to describe the type amount and frequency of substance abuse and we're going to look at that for a target date of
LIsa Anderson: July 16
LIsa Anderson: Continuing to complete your psychological test to assess the severity and nature of her substance abuse and this will all be for the next three months with the July 16 target date.
LIsa Anderson: Provide behavioral, emotional and attitudinal information.
LIsa Anderson: Around specify as relevant to a DSM diagnosis.
LIsa Anderson: I would like her to see her explore and resolve her ambivalence associated to her commitment to her addiction and that will be evidence by her patient report that really committing to to a recovery plan.
LIsa Anderson: Commit we'd like I'd like to see your commit to an action plan directed toward her termination of substance abuse by July 16
LIsa Anderson: I would like her to attend some sort of support group.
LIsa Anderson: Within the next three months.
LIsa Anderson: I would like her to look at even acknowledging and then as as a future goal. I would say for about four months maybe august 16
LIsa Anderson: Agreed to make amends to significant others who have been hurt by a life dominated by substance abuse within the next four months, as evidenced by her patient report.
LIsa Anderson: I'd like to see your verbalize and increase knowledge of substance abuse and the process of recovery within the next three months.
LIsa Anderson: And then also for her to verbalize and understanding of the factors that can contribute to development of chemical dependence and then have her look at what those risks for relapse would be
LIsa Anderson: I'd like to see her within the next three months. Again, identify a level of happiness in various areas of life as identified by her patient report.
LIsa Anderson: How to how to implement communication and problem solving skills.
LIsa Anderson: towards achieving her goals within the next three months and then cooperate with exploration of increasing satisfaction and areas of life that can support sobriety, such as employment recreation and relationships.
LIsa Anderson: As evidence in the next three months, which today amber did discuss on that she has applied for several banking jobs.
LIsa Anderson: And I would like to see her identify challenge and replace destructive high risk self talk with positive strength building self talk within the next three months.
LIsa Anderson: In Sugarland demonstrated today really poor insight as far as her
LIsa Anderson: Identifying her thoughts of paranoia REALLY WHICH SHE CONNECTED TO in anxiety episode and she did report a high level of anxiety, but she also reported with amphetamine use. And so I would really like to see her improve insight within the next three months.
LIsa Anderson: And recognize
LIsa Anderson: The
LIsa Anderson: You know, psychological consequences of drug use.
LIsa Anderson: Really again for her to verbalize and understanding of laps in relapse, as evidenced by her report.
LIsa Anderson: And then really look at implementing relapse prevention strategies for managing future situations for her with your high risk for relapse and today.
LIsa Anderson: She talks about her children staff being released from jail. She talked about conflict with her, significant other, she kind of glazed around those cycles social stressors that were really I think triggers for her her use of methamphetamine.
LIsa Anderson: Which she says was was three days ago.
LIsa Anderson: So for her long term goals, having amber accept the fact of chemical dependence and actively participate in a recovery program. I'd like to see her establish a sustained recovery free from the use of all
LIsa Anderson: All mood altering substances establish and maintain total abstinence
LIsa Anderson: And stabilize both physically and emotionally
LIsa Anderson: And increase her knowledge of the disease and the process of recovery and then to have her acquire the necessary necessary skills to maintain long term sobriety from all mood altering substances.
LIsa Anderson: She will now need to withdraw from the mood altering substances stabilized physically and emotionally and then staple established supportive recovery plan.
LIsa Anderson: In we're going to utilize cognitive behavioral therapy Dialectical Behavioral therapy to begin helping her maintain sobriety her discharge plan will look at continuing with with this outpatient
LIsa Anderson: Continuing with about patient therapy and continuing with psychiatry and attending support groups. We also reviewed a treatment plan in regard to generalized anxiety disorder. However, I'm going to defer on that until
LIsa Anderson: We can assess further her
LIsa Anderson: You know, I believe that the methamphetamine use over the past week is really what's driving a lot of anxiety, and I would like to see amber
LIsa Anderson: You know she she reported really high severe anxiety on on her measures, but I would really like to see her have some sustained sobriety before further exploring that.
LIsa Anderson: And so
LIsa Anderson: Today was really focused on
LIsa Anderson: Creating that treatment plan.
LIsa Anderson: Establishing a set schedule for her group and individual sessions which will be weekly for both
LIsa Anderson: And today we focused on updating her treatment plan for opioid use disorder. We are also going to add to that methamphetamine use. So today we kind of got that verbal agreement around that initial treatment plan.
LIsa Anderson: Looked at for treatment objectives.
LIsa Anderson: And and that was the focus of our
LIsa Anderson: Of our session today. It looks like she did complete her family and all of her other measures.
LIsa Anderson: And she is going to continue with group.
LIsa Anderson: Today, I would just characterize amber as
LIsa Anderson: You know as as pretty distracted.
LIsa Anderson: Her thought content was focused on the session, but she she seemed highly distractible today.
LIsa Anderson: Last week she was in a park walking around. So I think she was a little bit more focused last week this week. She was in a vehicle.
LIsa Anderson: Which ended up here and she was in the backseat with someone else in the front seat driving. I could hear a male voice in the background in it appeared that he was maybe
LIsa Anderson: Talking to her or talking on the phone. So she was pretty distracted.
LIsa Anderson: But she she didn't mention there was no evidence of suicidal or homicidal thoughts today.
LIsa Anderson: your thought process was, she was alert oriented to person in place. She was well groomed.
LIsa Anderson: There were times where her eye contact was quite poor.
LIsa Anderson: Where she she did not appear engaged.
LIsa Anderson: You know, other times she she could focus and sustained short periods of eye contact her behavior. Again, it just seemed just a little bit distracted, but her motor activity was within normal limits.
LIsa Anderson: Her her mood seen you find make with with a somewhat
LIsa Anderson: Depressed to flat and an effect or a blunted alpha effect.
LIsa Anderson: It open in different
LIsa Anderson: Her speech seem normal again. Her attitude was was guarded to to even them a bit a bit suspicious, but her her thought process was linear to concrete. It was no evidence of
LIsa Anderson: Those associations her thought content was normal no evidence of
LIsa Anderson: Hallucinations. However, there was a bit of a
LIsa Anderson: Mentioned a paranoid thought content.
LIsa Anderson: Where she she really was pretty guarded about that other than identifying a some paranoid.
LIsa Anderson: Content, I believe, related to the methamphetamine use and we will definitely want to explore that further.
LIsa Anderson: You know, I think, given her her recent methamphetamine use on her judgment in insight are quite poor.
LIsa Anderson: And so we are going to continue with
LIsa Anderson: Weekly therapy weekly group with her next appointment being for 23 at 1pm Mountain Standard Time.